Describe your software design in detail.
Explain your software source code in your github repository.
Describe your software prototype evaluation in detail.
Write summary of your project, which consist of Introduction, Methods, Results, Discussion, and References.



1. The current software is a classification model based on a CNN architecture. Its purpose is to take an image input of a cell and process it before determining if it
   is a normal cell or a Leukemia cell. The purpose of this software is to aid medical professionals with an automated way of processing blood cell images. It is much
   more important for the model to detect Leukemia cells than normal cells. In a medical setting, it is better to have a false alarm for Leukemia than it is to miss
   a potentially cancerous Leukemia cell that was labeled as normal by the model.

2. The general flow of the code is at its core a CNN model that is being set up and trained. The source code is placed in the SourceCode.py file in this repository. 
   It has a comment for every step of the process so that other users may understand it, so please look at that file for my answers to the 2nd question.
   
3. I applied two main things for the prototype evaluation: testing each cell of code and testing the final model. To test each cell of code is relatively simple, as
   without this being correct, the program would fail. I coded this project on a Google Colab notebook, which allowed me to have cells of code instead of one huge 
   chunk of code that would be difficult to interpret and find errors in. While working on this project, if a cell gets an error message, then I would fix it
   immediately until it works. Hence, the first part of the prototype's evaluation is done during the making of it and can be assumed to be done when the project is
   done. The second part is testing the final model. This is done in the last part of the code. I had cells of code that are designed to take an input image from the
   testing data and let it label the image with a decimal from 0 until 1. The closer it is to 0, the more confident it is that it is a normal cell, and the closer it
   is to 1, the more confident it is that it is a Leukemia cell. An output that ranges at around 0.45-0.65 is not desirable because that shows that the model is very
   unsure. It is more desirable to have an output of 0 < output < 0.2 and 0.8 < output < 1.0 because that shows that the model is confident in its answer. While doing
   this testing phase, I unfortunately found that the model shows signs of being unsure of some input images. Some images are classified with a high confidence rate,
   but there are still a considerable number of times when the model outputs a value in the range of 0.45-0.65. Of course, that range is something that I decided on my
   own, solely based on the fact that the possible output is a sliding scale between 0 and 1, and being around the middle of that range dictates a sense of confusion.
   
4. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is a type of blood cell cancer that can affect both children and adults. In order to get the most effective treatment, the patient 
   needs early diagnosis. My motivation to go in this direction stemmed from the paper that was first proposed to me. That paper was about the integration of NLP2FHIR
   for diagnosing obestiy patients. Although that paper is extremely interesting, it was not possible for me to retrieve the dataset used in that paper, and it was also
   not possible for me to apply all of the models that they developed for the paper. Hence, I decided to decrease my scope, but still work on a project that would
   benefit the medical field. The aim of this project is to implement the CNN structure to a Leukemia dataset in order to find ways to explore and aid the medical field 
   with state-of-the-art software. Due to this, the intended audience of said software are professionals of the medical field, and the final software is intended to be 
   used as a tool of medical analysis for patients suspected of Leukemia.
   
   The method that I will be using is applying Convolutional Neural Networks for a classification problem. Firstly, I had to search and prepare for the dataset. The
   dataset that I used consists of over 15000 images, divided into two classes: normal cells and acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. This dataset has been divided into 
   testing, training, and validation folders. I did not utilize every piece of data to train the model to decrease training time and the computational power that was
   required to test that much data. In my project, I set aside around 2200 data for each class. I prepared the images by scaling them to 256x256 before then building
   a CNN model using the Sequential model from Tensorflow. This CNN structure has 3 convolutional layers and 2 max pooling layers, with a dropout function after each
   pooling layer to avoid overfitting. Finally, there is the fully connected and softmax layer.
   
   The accuracy of this model peaked at 83.5% and the training performs relatively well. However, the validation accuracy averages at about 60%, which is not very 
   ideal. The validation loss, in comparison, is higher. This depicts a model that has much to improve. Overall, the model can predict normal cells accurately, but 
   has a hard time recognizing leukemia cells. This is very much not ideal, as I mentioned earlier, it is better to have a false alarm for Leukemia than it is to miss
   a potentially cancerous Leukemia cell that was labeled as normal by the model. Some images are classified with a high confidence rate, but there are still a 
   considerable number of times when the model outputs a value in the range of 0.45-0.65. Improvements can possibly be made by doing more epochs and tweaking 
   hyperparameters.
   
   References:
   https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/andrewmvd/leukemia-classification
   https://www.researchgate.net/publication/324746753_Leukemia_Blood_Cell_Image_Classification_Using_Convolutional_Neural_Network
   https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8378603/
